Our team this year decided to create an aptamer-based detection method to diagnose amebiasis disease caused by Entamoeba histolytica. Nevertheless, SELEX (Systematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment) was chosen as the main approach used to find aptamers for the protein target indicating the presence of E. histolytica. Finding a suitable aptamer by the well-established SELEX method requires the establishment of appropriate protocols, and might be a laborious and costly procedure. Keeping these reasons in mind, we started to look for in silico approaches for aptamer generation. After studying existing literature resources we found methods like M.A.W.S. (Making aptamers without SELEX), which was implemented by Heidelberg iGEM 2015 team. Based on this approach, we released an updated version that takes a step further and applies a novel transformer-based neural network model combined with a genetic algorithm to make aptamer generation in silico a more resource efficient process that has the higher potential to output an affine aptamer sequences than SELEX. The key part of the model is that it has a property of transfer learning that lets anyone fine-tune the model almost instantly for modified tasks.

Another significant part of the model is the genetic algorithm (GA) that produces new sequences at every iteration by well-known breeding, mutation steps, sequences are quite similar to last iteration top aptamers (is kuriu tikimes panasiu savybiu tik su geresniu fitness?) also GAs probabilistic model helped to determine convergence, how many iterations process needs, of the final aptamer list which consists of N aptamers to be investigated further. Lastly, final iteration sequences are analysed and compared by ELBAScore furthermore the best of it, 10 % of total, will be reevaluated in the lab.

Two separate models were created for protein targets Albumin and EhPPDK. Here transfer learning helped out, we had to train a model only on Albumin dataset for 2.5 days on 1 GPU and later on fine-tune the same Albert model with EhPPDK protein target dataset to save time, it took ~3 hours, because the model just needs to relearn positional embedding to inference partially different data. Initial model itself was trained on 1500 different aptamer sequences data from ELBAScore which formed 1,124,250 pairs with binary labels, 60% of it was used for training matter, 20 % for validation, and the rest for testing. To inference a new population of aptamers Albert takes approximately 5 minutes. [ikelti image of losses from training] + [metrikos] + [top aptameru iverciai su ELBALite, kokia dalis nukeliavo i labe] + [gal dar kazkokius iteracinius/tarpinius duomenis] + [pabrezti kaip efektino] + [distribucijos issemimas]